Split permissions reference and overview (#16904)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: concepts/auth/auth-concepts.md

# Authentication and authorization basics

> To call Microsoft Graph, your app must acquire an access token from the Microsoft identity platform. The access token contains information about your app and the permissions it has to access the resources and APIs available through Microsoft Graph. To get an access token, your app must be registered with the Microsoft identity platform and be authorized by either a user, or an administrator, to access the Microsoft Graph resources that it wants to access.

Author: Ack. Updated.

- **Redirect URI/URL**: One or more endpoints at which your app will receive responses from the Microsoft identity platform. (For native and mobile apps, the URI is assigned by the Microsoft identity platform.)
- **Client secret**: A password or a public/private key pair that your app uses to authenticate with the Microsoft identity platform. (Not needed for native or mobile apps.)

> The properties configured during registration are used in the request. For example, in the following token request: *client_id* is the *application ID*, *redirect_uri* is one of your app's registered *redirect URIs*, and *client_secret* is the *client secret*.

Author: I've restored it. However, I'm taking an action item to get one of the Microsoft identity platform writers to help re-review these auth basics articles. I don't think the flow of the articles supports a dev to understand the journey from app registration till when they call Graph successfully.

+ **Delegated access**, an app acting on behalf of a signed-in user.
+ **App-only access**, an app acting with its own identity.

### Best practices for requesting permissions
:::image type="content" source="~/../azure_docs/active-directory/develop/media/permissions-consent-overview/access-scenarios.png" alt-text="Illustration of delegated access and app-only access scenarios in the Microsoft identity platform.":::

[!INCLUDE [auth-use-least-privileged](../../includes/auth-use-least-privileged.md)]
### Delegated access (access on behalf of a user)

### Delegated and application permissions
In this access scenario, a user has signed into a client application and the client application calls Microsoft Graph on behalf of the user. *Both the client and the user must be authorized to make the request*.

Microsoft Graph has two types of permissions:
Delegated access requires *delegated permissions*, also referred to as *scopes*. Scopes are permissions that are exposed by a given resource and they represent the operations that an app can perform on behalf of a user.

> - **Delegated permissions** are used by apps that have a signed-in user present. For these apps, either the user or an administrator consents to the permissions that the app requests and the app can act as the signed-in user when making calls to Microsoft Graph. Some delegated permissions can be consented by non-administrative users, but some higher-privileged permissions require [administrator consent](/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-v2-scopes#using-the-admin-consent-endpoint).  

Author: Hmm, let me follow up with you internally. I can't trace the scenario.

> + When the app is assigned ownership of the resource that it intends to manage.

Author: Ack.

```

To call Microsoft Graph, the app makes an authorization request by attaching the access token as a **Bearer** token to the **Authorization** header in an HTTP request. For example, the following call that returns the profile information of the signed-in user (the access token has been shortened for readability):

```http
GET https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/me/ HTTP/1.1
Host: graph.microsoft.com
Authorization: Bearer EwAoA8l6BAAU ... 7PqHGsykYj7A0XqHCjbKKgWSkcAg==
```

Access tokens are a kind of **security token** that the Microsoft identity platform provides. They're short-lived but with variable default lifetimes.

### Get an access token

Like most developers, you'll probably use authentication libraries to manage your token interactions with the Microsoft identity platform. Authentication libraries abstract many protocol details like validation, cookie handling, token caching, and maintaining secure connections, from the developer, and let you focus your development on your app's functionality. Microsoft publishes open-source client libraries and server middleware.

For the Microsoft identity platform endpoint:

> - Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) client libraries are available for various frameworks including for .NET, JavaScript, Android, and Objective-C. All platforms are in production-supported preview, and, in the event breaking changes are introduced, Microsoft guarantees a path to upgrade.

Author: Ack. Updated.

> - Server middleware from Microsoft is available for .NET core and ASP.NET (OWIN OpenID Connect and OAuth) and for Node.js (Microsoft the Microsoft identity platform Passport.js).

Author: Fixed.

- **Redirect URI/URL**: One or more endpoints at which your app will receive responses from the Microsoft identity platform. (For native and mobile apps, the URI is assigned by the Microsoft identity platform.)
- **Client secret**: A password or a public/private key pair that your app uses to authenticate with the Microsoft identity platform. (Not needed for native or mobile apps.)

> The app will specify these properties in its authentication request to the Microsoft identity platform when it wants to acquire an access token.

Reviewer: Hi Faith, I am not sure I fully understand this sentence. Would you be so kind to give me a bit of context, please? My specific questions are:
- How does the app specifies the properties? 
- "... when it wants to acquire..." Angela once told me that we avoid giving human attributes (like wanting something) to things or elements. Could we rephrase to indicate the process instead? For example: 
The application specifies these properties in the authentication request to the Microsoft identity platform when it requests an access token.

Author: Just realized this is a duplicate of the intro sentence. I've removed this statement.

For more information, see [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](/graph/auth-register-app-v2)

## Access scenarios

> The method that an app uses to authenticate to the Microsoft identity platform will depend on how the app wants to access data. As an application developer, you must identify which one of two ways your app will use to access data through Microsoft Graph.

Reviewer: Line 30: Similar comment as above: ... will depend on how the app _wants_ to access...
Proposed:
```suggestion
The method that an app uses to authenticate to the Microsoft identity platform will depend on how you want the application to interact with the data. As an application developer, you must identify which one of two ways your app will use to access data through Microsoft Graph.
```

Author: Tweaked and updated.

> + **Delegated access**, acting on behalf of a signed-in user
> + **Direct access**, acting with its own identity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ **Delegated access**, acting on behalf of a signed-in user.
+ **Direct access**, acting with its own identity.
```

> :::image type="content" source="../images/access-scenarios.png" alt-text="Image shows illustration of access scenarios.":::

Reviewer: Can we provide more details to the alt text? 

```suggestion
:::image type="content" source="../images/access-scenarios.png" alt-text="A chart illustrating access scenarios. At the left the delegated access chart shows a user icon plus an application icon and an arrow from both to the data at resource. To the right, the direct access chart displays the application icon chart and the arrow going directly from it to the data at resource. ":::
```

Author: We try to avoid literal descriptions and leave that to the text just after the image. But I've tweaked the alt-text to give more information.

### Delegated access (access on behalf of a user)

In this access scenario, a user has signed into a client application and the client application calls Microsoft Graph on behalf of the user. Delegated access requires **delegated permissions**, also referred to as **scopes**, and both the client and the user must be authorized to make the request.

> For the client app, the required delegated permissions (scopes) must be granted. Scopes are permissions of a given resource that the client application exercises on behalf of a user. They're strings that represent what the application wants to do on behalf of the user. 

Author: I've restructured the section to help with the flow.

For the user, the authorization relies on the privileges that the user has been granted to access the resource. For example, the user might be assigned a particular role through a role-based access control system (RBAC) such as [Azure AD RBAC](/azure/active-directory/roles/custom-overview).

For more information about delegated permissions that can be assigned to apps that call Microsoft Graph in a delegated access scenario, see [Microsoft Graph permission types](#microsoft-graph-permissions).

### Direct access (app-only access)

> In this access scenario, the application acts on its own without a signed in user. Direct access or app-only access is used in scenarios such as automation and backup, and is mostly used by apps that run as background services or daemons. It's suitable when it's undesirable to have a user signed in, or when the data required can't be scoped to a single user.

Reviewer: Suggestion for clarity:
```suggestion
In this access scenario, the application can interact with data on its own, without a signed in user. Direct access or app-only access is used in scenarios such as automation and backup, and is mostly used by apps that run as background services or daemons. It's suitable when it's undesirable to have a user signed in, or when the data required can't be scoped to a single user.
```

Author: Accepted, thanks!
